I feel like people in India work harder
yeah uh the work ethics are stronger
here I mean that money is a function of
the impact you create if you're not
creating impact and yet are you actually
squeezing money somehow that's bad you
deprived of money early on in the
childhood so you you overcompensate in
your adulthood to earn as much as
possible so hence you work really really
hard there were a lot of people who were
laid off they came back to India I
personally know of people who have made
like 50 60 70 million dollars
[Music]
foreign
how much is it so I earn about 4 lakhs a
month which is much less than what you
earned back there and this conscious
you've known this for a while yeah yeah
I mean this look I mean it's very clear
that if if at all I'm going to make
money off of scalar it's not going to be
from the salary I make it's going to be
from the eventual outcome of scalar
right so and then we're very clear like
there is nothing else we want to do in
life with me and ABI menu so so we're
looking at like what happens in the next
20 years 30 years uh and then how big of
a company does Scala become it's just
beautiful it's also been a long journey
for you right which I really like and I
really respect what you've done okay you
had that first interview bit phase I
think we talked about that a lot off
camera and then now you have this scalar
phase it's not a phase scalar which is
now scaling uh we'll talk about more
about that but uh do tell me one thing
dude will meet we'll talk as like
subscribe
this podcast and uh you told me I sleep
at 2 am 3 A.M I think 4am it was so
what's happening are you why are you
sleeping so late yeah because I teach so
in our context because we teach working
professionals yeah so the classes have
to be outside of workers uh so for
example like one slot where we teach is
the late night 9 pm to 11 30 p.m you
teach this and I teach one of those
classes I mean there are multiple such
classes going on in parallel yeah
um so and the thing is like you you
teach till 11 30 then you stay back to
take doubts and queries so the class
eventually actually ends at 12 30 and
post that you have so much energy
teaching that you can't sleep then
you need like a two to three hour cool
off to actually finally get to a state
where you can sleep dude this is amazing
right like I mean not only a founder of
this great company but you still
teaching today your conscious decision
yoga right yeah I mean to be honest I I
believe that as Founders like one of the
expectations from me is to make the
right decisions for the companies and
that does not happen until you
understand what is happening at the root
level and if you teaching I mean that's
the best kind of user interviews you
could be doing you you know the pulse of
the people that that are actually taking
your service where they're happy whether
and happy where they are understanding
stuff where they're not able to
understand stuff uh so it's a conscious
Choice uh to keep teaching because then
you understand like the pulse yeah on
the ground I see a lot of Founders doing
this to me also it's a conscious Choice
like I love teaching and I think that
process is very interesting when you're
teaching something and someone goes oh
very nice and then they're giving you
feedback it was I understood this and
there's this pre and post that
so it feels very nice also and you get
to understand your students I think Alex
also like that at physics right I think
all of us may not have to teach but we
teach out of like
um Karthik is also a good choice of
Varsity right I mean Karthik doesn't
really need to teach now everything's
out there millions of people have used
it but he's still teaching on YouTube
and elsewhere so that's really cool very
nice let's talk about your um
and then you got his job at Facebook
okay got it but let me walk me through
what was your first week at Facebook uh
cultural shocks interesting the first
week
um yeah let me think of like what I
remember there were a bunch of cultural
shocks but I'm just trying to think I
mean obviously like the first thing any
Indian notices when you go to a country
outside of India is that it's super
clean people are super organized they're
fewer people so the the streets are not
clogged up with cars yeah uh you get
from one place to the other really
really fast
um
I'm just trying to think like if there
were specific I mean I remember one
incident for example
um obviously like I had known of Mark
Zuckerberg in the in the beginning yeah
um what was the cultural shock for me
was that when I joined the office my my
initial desk was right opposite
where Zuckerberg used to sit
so he had an open uh this was an open
Office there are no cabins whatsoever
um I know I mean I did not know that he
was going to be sitting there sir so I
sat I was working and then he came was
sitting at his own seat so he got up
himself came to me introduced himself
yeah that hey I'm Mark I run this
company
did he smile or like I've seen so much
see I don't know Mark right but I see
that he's an alien he has no expression
then informally he smiles
I think it freezes on a camera and what
happened after that
um I think in fact like my manager uh
was a person then
um who now is the CTO of Facebook so
balls
um so I got to work with him as well
um post that I had a manager transition
to another person called Prashant Malik
uh who is the creator of Cassandra which
is a big thing in Tech
um so I I was very fortunate that I got
to work with these kind of people which
I I believe like had I been at any other
place I might not have had the options
what was your job this was my first this
is your first oh so you had nothing to
compare to also oh interesting I had an
internship uh with a company called
director in Mumbai ah yeah of course um
but like internship was a very small
stint do you think like people are more
efficient abroad the way that they work
it's it's it's completely on the person
in his work ethic
uh I think there's a lot more freedom
given to People Too on what they want to
work on and how they work and again my
experience is only on Facebook so there
could be difference
uh in other companies but um
I feel like people in India work harder
yeah the work ethics are stronger here
as compared to I think they have a chip
on their shoulder right I think this is
the first generation which is actually
doing something of of impact maybe uh
that they can see an impact and maybe
their parents didn't have that
opportunity perhaps and so they feel
like you know I've got to make the best
of the opportunity and I think they they
probably work a lot harder I mean a lot
of Indians abroad we have one here who's
come back so no I think there's another
part like psychology says that things
that you're deprived of in your
childhood you strive harder than you
over compensate right uh I think that
that's the case with most Indians with
money you deprived of money early on in
the childhood so you you over compensate
in your adulthood to earn as much as
possible so hence you work really really
hard
um in the context of us I mean most
people are not deprived of money correct
childhood so they're doing it more for
interest
um for the joy of of building things
yeah um so what I for example like one
other differences that I found was that
um in the U.S like with my colleagues
there was far more attention to detail
on things that were being built out than
it is here why why is that um
same purpose right like I want to get as
much done in as little time as possible
in India so that I achieve more I earn
more versus uh there it is like I this
is something I take pride in
um
what goes out if it has my name on it it
has to be solid what was your first
project over there that you actually
pushed out production yeah uh so
I started with this team that was
building the new Facebook Chat and
messages
I mean so before messenger there was uh
in those days the Facebook so the way
Facebook Chat was born was that
initially there was a large split within
Facebook where certain sections believed
that there shouldn't be a messaging
system inside Facebook oh interesting
um so there was a lot of friction to
rolling out a messaging product and the
way people built conviction was that the
Facebook used to do these hackathons
every three months where like you said
you basically wake up through the night
you have pizzas and a bunch of uh stuff
to eat and then you roll out something
in the morning
um so somebody actually built out a very
basic chat which would not store your
messages okay so you send a message if
the other person is also online then
they see that message if they're not
online then you lose out on the message
oh wow it's like one of those paper cups
remember when we were children we had a
wire a string attached to it
yeah so okay so that was built out on
like very uh surprisingly in the first
week alone we started seeing like about
2 billion odd messages being sent out on
that broken chat every day that was
already higher than what they used to be
in those days Gchat yeah that was higher
than Google alien 2 billion yeah oh my
goodness so that was a revelation that
maybe the other uh school of thought was
not right so then I mean a team was
sanctioned then let's go and build this
out the right way
chat should be stored it's not shouldn't
be that I've sent you a message and just
because you were not online you lost it
I should be able to look at history of
my messages and so forth so the first
version that was built was this thing on
the on your laptop so on the website web
is what we would call that right right
so on your laptop you could chat and the
message would be stored that was the
first version then the second version
was messenger that builded mobile first
because the world is moving mobile and
it's a different app also I think right
yeah and the third stage was separated
out as a separate app okay right it was
within Facebook and then it so what did
you work on so which version the web I
started with the first one first one the
web version and that time I was the this
is my first job so I was a junior
engineer but through the course of time
I grew internally so how was the team
size for this which did the initial
version
um so when I started for the first
version we were a team of about 20 odd
people
why is this a big deal here so 20
world-class Engineers building a chart
see to the normal person like huh
WhatsApp chat hey chat I mean just two
three lines to explain why is this
complex at the scale at which Facebook
is at right
um so I'll maybe take an example of
myself only right so
um my b-tech project so in my B Tech I
was supposed to build a project at the
in my last year so my b-tech project was
building a chat application
um
and this chat application obviously
nobody was using that chat application
that is my project
so I mean for this chat application the
messages were stored in my own laptop
the code was also running on my laptop
so there was this one single machine
where everything is
now let's switch over to what was
happening at Facebook Facebook
first day you'll get about 10 billion
odd messages
[Laughter]
so if you add metadata size and the
message size let's say the approximate
size is 200 KB or 250. sorry 200 bytes
or 250 250 bytes so then roughly you're
generating
um
2.5 terabyte of data every single day
10 billion into 250 bytes yeah
um
uh and this is no images no videos
without images without video freaking
text just text hi pollution
so that is the speed as which database
is being generated so that means if you
look at like what was the message being
sent in a year
and the store Khanna is not enough right
like somebody might come and say for
example you might come and say again
tell me all of my messages the word
vaccine has occurred in it like a search
like a search right yes now how do you
do when your messages across thousands
of machines which machine do you go to
which but if do you efficiently pull
that information and show it to the user
and also quick enough time that becomes
a complex engineering problem on single
machine it is much simpler makes sense
but when you go to multiple machines it
becomes harder so uh you also told me
that you moved to not moved you said
London London office setup you could
have gone to Google you could have gone
to like any other company I guess but
you said London office setup
um and uh I mean why did you find this
interesting yeah I mean uh so setting up
a new office is a complete zero to one
experience you you get to build
something from scratch and you hired
people over there as well yeah yeah so I
was not the only one by the way there
was a team of four people who were
called like Landing team members they
were sent to London to do that and it
was an interesting project because one
is you're not only hiring people you're
not only building this office from
scratch but you somehow have to
translate the culture that existed in
the headquarters to this office and
that's not written down is it right like
do you have a culture book that you can
refer to
um in Facebook there wasn't uh there was
I mean there was in some ways there were
certain values that were written on
posters that would be there all
throughout the office sure
um through practice and through
appraisals like some of these were
enforced uh that for example like one of
the key values there was that you have
to focus on creating impact how many
lines of code you write doesn't matter
it doesn't matter whether you were awake
for five nights in in continuous doesn't
matter what matters is like the code
that you wrote what impact did it create
did it lead to more users did it lead to
people finding the product more
delightful uh that was all that mattered
so we had to translate some of that to
to this new office
um and we I mean I personally had never
done a zero to one right so so this was
super exciting six months this was a
year one year oh not bad
in the rain in the cold windy London
yeah very murky London were you sitting
on a weekend and you saw some days and
you're like
I'm going back Visa you moved back to
India and said Keith so this moment what
what is that moment uh I think couple of
reasons one is like look I come from a
family of Engineers so
um
my both of my younger brothers they
they're also Engineers huh
um so and and they did not get to what
you would call as some of the most
premium colleges in India sure
what they were learning so for example I
remember one particular instant where my
brother told me that he was memorizing
the code to find out whether a string is
pal in Rome because
foreign
er uh he comes from a family of teachers
so his dad for example used to run a
school in a tribal area in madhya
Pradesh
um
to he also was super excited about doing
education you knew him for a while yeah
so he was my bachelor from college so I
had and like what I just called was like
dude
was it very uh spontaneous
so uh we used to build things together
in college as well okay
um
we had built a few products
which were some were good some were not
so good but
so we always will have had this thing
yeah
um and then like one of those years I
when I was visiting India I told him I'm
thinking of doing something in the field
of Education this is the problem
statement and it was like yeah I also
feel the problem statement is there
because I'm struggling hiring Engineers
for my own team and then we said let's
let's do this let's let's so he he put
down his paper I left Facebook I came
back to India and then we started is it
bootstrapped completely bootstrapped
then he started uh self-paced platform
yeah
um I guess yeah the initial thesis was
that maybe the way to solve education is
through a product yeah
inspired by Duolingo yeah
um so so I mean we said like how do we
build a dwelling of our programming
let's let's start with that
um and there also we knew that humans
are motivated by jobs
so how about I build a Duolingo that
takes you to a job
and we call that product interview bit
so we started with that
but realized working
um education
there are two forms of Education in the
world one is books
so asynchronous form of Education which
is self-paced Japanese right
um
education is a lot more about motivation
than just content yeah
uh there are only few who complete those
books so hence we started looking at it
high completion rate of then that is
Colleges and Schools
um because you have peer pressure
because you have a schedule to follow
you have a community and the best kind
of pressure or transformational changes
come from social social pressure even if
you look at say Finance the best
collections of loans are social contract
connections which are micro microfinance
I'm sure you know if they go to a
village sub all the ladies sit down
together it's only two women by the way
and they give out the loan and they say
they go is
make sure she pays and because of social
threat is so much the collection rates
are like 99.9 versus say a bank job is
productized right um and there's no
social pressure it it may be much less
so I think uh very very similar
Community Learning really important
Community Learning very important social
aspect very important I think also the
fact that you have a human being to
unblock you the moment you get blocked
um so there are no these points where it
just gets hard and then you give up
because you know that I mean there's
this human being I can go and talk to
they will help unblock things and then I
move forward yeah again I'm talking
about good colleges
I think there's a problem right like we
were talking about this like a lot of
education institutions aren't started
don't start at the right intent right I
think uh what you can do is you have a
institution you say they come here this
is not all colleges obviously but a lot
of them
um and people say
education
they collect the money up front they
they do something they make some money
and the kid is not skilled at all right
I think curriculum focus and it's just
that it's just built for the wrong
reasons I think it's also the setup and
I'm very sorry sorry to say that yeah
um
izo regulatory bodies and they've
created certain archaic regulatory that
you have to follow that you have to
follow right for example I was talking
to one of the
um one of the persons from a university
who runs a university and they told me
that uh for example the regulation says
that you can only teach in a 1 to 60
classroom and every single person
teaching has to be a PhD or a masters
yes and the actually uh and like for my
skill I then need a lot of professors I
can't get very high quality of PhD folks
then PhD doesn't mean that they are
great teachers so they might be
knowledgeable but they are not able to
translate that to to kids so I'm left
with a classroom that doesn't doesn't
understand stuff yeah and then people
that I have to then hire externally to
come and teach who are actually good
teachers I can't show that to ugc or
aict saying that hey look I mean here
are the good teachers they don't
recognize those teachers this is
interesting right like what is the
objective of the existence of an
organization its purpose if its purpose
is to give outcomes right it will not
look at these things such as PhD
can you get to this point right where
he's used where he's productive in a
working environment so that is a very
different objective and reason to be
alive versus from I have to deliver
education according to these rules
correct correct
um and that's why I think we both think
it's a little archaic and uh hopefully I
think it will evolve but it'll take time
dude I think some some companies I guess
or institutions will have to prove that
this is a better way then everyone has
to agree socially that yeah this all
this is the better way and then I guess
there is a change yeah everyone moves to
that
um eventually there is something very
similar happening in China
um
so as a 10 what is happening in China is
that the government has
um started I should be incentivizing
going to universities so they've reduced
the number of seats in in the top
colleges like qingwa jejang Etc uh and
what they've done is that there is now a
concept of a skill University
um
which in India used to be called
Polytechnic but like it's just been so
yeah so nobody respects them but there
are these skills universities and like
the government is rather incentivizing
people to go to these skills University
so that they graduate with some level of
skills and hence they they are
employable hard skill is equal to job
job yeah yeah
um and in fact like some of the top
professors from these universities they
are then like being moved from
University to teach in these skill
universities so
I think globally as well like the the
mindset is Shifting to skills first
making sure people are employable
um hard skills are more important
outcomes are more important yeah yeah so
it will happen I think the crowd it's on
LinkedIn right like the tier one city
crowd I think already accepts this I
think the rest of India which is like 99
does not uh accept it yet because a lot
of Education or at least higher
education is just signaling right yeah
yeah uh credentialing and signaling I'm
I'm a good crop because look at this uh
that mind shift change will will take a
while I guess and I remember like the
first year when we were just finishing
placements yeah uh so there's this one
person that we had placed in a very good
startup right and he said like look I
mean I'm the first person from my
college to ever get this kind of
placement yeah
um I mean most of people in my college
they don't even look for a job and the
ones who do I mean they get into the TCS
and Infosys of the world which are like
low paid as compared to the startup jobs
and I asked him like why is that like
why are people even enrolling in this
college year by year so he said like
look I mean the most of the people that
come to my college they are
traditionally people who are kids of
businessmen
um traditional businessmen and they do
the degree because it's a signaling for
their marriage yeah so it makes them uh
more eligible more eligible in the
marriage market and and they only care
for them the the degree and the
signaling piece they don't care about
anything else yeah I mean in our case
we're a self-paced platform right so one
story is uh like one of our users
is that he start he works in a fund and
see fund managers there's a very small
team and you learn by experience that's
the only way to learn right and you have
to spend years and years in getting that
and getting to a point and this guy just
joined his fund or I think he was one
month away from joining this as a junior
and he joined he learned all these
things over here and he goes and he
starts preparing uh presentations to
give to his fund manager okay
and those people didn't accept it
because they said you've not spent two
years over here we won't allow you to
actually you don't uh so that's like
kind of sad that uh you know you need to
go through this grind of yeah
but eventually uh and this was a trigger
for all of us he got promoted the
fastest over there uh within six seven
months which doesn't happen in our
industry and we said oh what if we made
this better and you know had a cohort
based system which actually uh which is
not self-paced and he went we sort of
saw the exact same things you were
telling me right could you have
Community could you have all of these uh
proof of skill
um you have cxos teaching
Etc which is upskilling
um and and hopefully give them a better
outcome in their careers right um so I
think the same thing is happening in
business uh education and uh Finance
education which is mostly uh to charge
experience
but you can actually shorten that yeah
yeah absolutely absolutely
um but there are still some regulations
that you'll have to work around for
example uh if there is somebody who
plans to work in the U.S yes for a U.S
visa you need to have at least four
years of education it could be
unaccredited education but four years of
education post your class 12th to be
eligible for that Visa I hope that also
changes from your time that's
interesting that means if someone is
actually skilled enough but it doesn't
come under that umbrella he won't be
able to move yeah
what do you think about that
it's archaic as I said right like for
example even today uh there are people
who might be in great position then they
might have done a BSC or a BCA which is
a three-year program typically what they
do is then they do this one year
Fellowship uh for example you have a
young Indian Fellowship they do that to
be then become eligible for um these are
like like shortcut hacks to actually get
it there okay dude this is an
interesting question okay so your
relationship with money when you were a
child so when you're a child
what did you think of money did you seek
did you see it as a bad thing ER money
is a problem what was your perspective
on money as a kid I don't think I was
ever in a phase where I thought money
was bad okay irrespective of what Indian
movies show
I mean I think there was a there was
this entire narrative in the 70s and 80s
where every movie would show that
anybody who's rich is by default bad
um
but irrespective I mean I never felt
that like earning money was bad
um and I always felt that uh and this is
because like some of my my elders have
told me that money is a function of the
impact you create if you're not creating
impact and yet are you actually
squeezing money somehow that's bad but
if you're actually changing the world
for the better if you're creating impact
and then like you're making some portion
of it as as money that's a good kind of
money it's nice that's interesting what
did Mom Dad do so my dad was in a
government job my mom is a homemaker
um like if I look at my entire letter
said like when there's some people who
are businessmen there's some people who
are in private jobs
um so but you never pressured into
engineering or something because you
said everyone was Engineers
not not at all it's just that I don't
know like why but like everybody in my
family is good with maths
and once you're good with math then I
mean uh there's a natural course that
course that you take and then you
finally get into engineering
um
I I mean to be honest like if I live
um if you look at like what other people
are doing then everybody is going to
this do this brand this is the more
correct branch and hence you want to do
that right so my parents never forced me
that you have to do engineering or you
have to go to this particular College
you have to take this Branch
um in fact my my father did his
engineering with mechanical I did with
computer science and he said look I mean
I know that mechanical school back then
I don't know what is school these days
you go figure it out so I I chose
because we went through that and then
you got your job at this thing first
salary of granitivity um
I remember like when I was my in my
third year in college uh there used to
be this person I used to compete with
um in programming competitions his name
was placenta yesterday the founder of
Rippling
um multi-billion dollars so is it and
he's probably watching this right now
and he his
First International placements
and he had gotten placed in uh Google or
Microsoft somebody was telling me that
look I mean his salary is about 96 lakhs
I was like if this person works for a
year then he doesn't have to work for
the rest of his life
so there was then like an explicit
attempt to get to an international job
right and uh when the first salary was
credited
when you see that money in dollars that
materializing
um it's it obviously feels very did you
do anything uh interesting like buy
stuff you don't need like you got a nice
watch or you got a card leased out or do
you do any of that stuff not really I
mean we come on man you come from Indian
mindset your first thing is how do you
say it safe so for example like in in
the Bay Area you need a car to move
around okay uh because the public
transport system is complete oh wow
so
um okay that's surprising Okay so
there were actually three of us we
pulled money to buy a used
cars used cars on the market
to buy a car uh so I mean I remember
like we lived very frugally just to make
sure that like we saved and you'd save
everything yeah
would you invest did you invest I'm
guessing you're gonna say no no every
day we did uh so
and I mean there were obviously
learnings on the past so initially we
started investing in stock market where
we would see like stocks that were very
volatile so I did not know this side of
you okay tell me more so we would try to
buy
um at a point of time and then like as
soon as it starts to Peak then we would
sell and then try to make money of that
we soon realized that there are big tax
implications of of day trading trading
um so if you make money though from that
I hope not I mean we didn't we didn't I
mean what we realized was that the
amount of money we made from doing that
and if we would have not done anything
but just invested in
so true we would have made the same
amount of money with much less the
amount of effort yeah so I guess it's
less exciting right like the thing about
investing is that I I will not go I'll
not talk too much about this but the
thing about investing is that it's so
unsexy it's so boring that it and it
almost feels like I can just go ahead
buy an index fund and I leave it I do
nothing but the economy is crashing or
Facebook laid off 11 000 people blah
blah uh shouldn't I not be investing I
mean the only way to actually make money
is do nothing yeah and that's the
toughest thing to do right uh but did
you invest in stocks long term or
anything yeah I did so
um even in those days I mean like
basically like the in Facebook you would
find a lot of people who are X Apple x
Microsoft so they would come and tell
like what they felt bullish about so so
one of the things we did was for example
one of the things I did was like I
invested all of the money I had all of
the savings that I had in Apple stocks
and Apple has grown phenomenally still
own it it is I sold it I sold it like
two three years back
but but like I made enough not bad with
Investments but the guys never do this
never put all your money in one stock
okay this is not good please diversify
oh but this this you struck out over
here this is good did that carry on did
you continue to invest
Etc no yeah I mean so the once you move
back to India then investing in foreign
stocks becomes far more complex right so
rather I mean in India your parents
force your hand to invest on real estate
they ask you to buy a home did he do
that so I I did buy a home and then I
moved from where I bought a home so I
was in Pune I bought a home there then I
moved to Bangalore and then I realized
oh
um
another advice
what is that do you think you should
have bought it yeah I don't think you
should have bought it uh I mean
especially for living purposes if you're
not looking at it as an investment yeah
um it doesn't make sense to to buy a
home especially because you invest so
much effort and money building that and
then you're not the one living there
you're at some other place better rent
it out because you're going to be moving
anyway yeah at least in my context one
of the things I've realized is that it
isn't isn't even sure that I'll be
Bangalore in Bangalore like two years
from now yeah true so uh how do I then
going back to the US aren't you I have
no idea
that's the point I don't know I don't
know so I think a good way to think
about real estate right in one line if I
had to put it if it's not an emotional
investment yeah if it's emotional that
they definitely should go after it get
that house no problem if it's an
investment
then one way to do is take out the rent
yield right it's just simple how much
rent would I get from this place divided
by the total cost generally it's two
three percent for five percent very
lucky uh and this keeps fluctuating
which means you'll have to wait for like
a long time to actually just recoup that
so it doesn't make sense to actually
um own a house instead you could put it
in even bonds for that matter if stocks
seems risky to you and the interesting
thing is when you say stocks right
people say yeah
but when I say house I'm like okay how
many days are you going to hold this
house for that question doesn't make
sense they're like days no I'll hold
this house I'll own it for maybe a
decade right so I think that thinking
right if you could think more about
stocks in a long way or Bonds in a long
way I guess people would be just I'm
obsessed about this dude because I think
everyone can do this passively without
even like go to your job just set
something aside and forget about it
right like make your money work for you
yeah yes make your money work for you
and I think less than what less than
three percent of India four percent of
India invests and abroad I think is 50
55 indirectly directly so India has to
financialize right uh so
I think that it's a good opportunity
that's right
but it's like a cushion man like nothing
happens
uh whatever oh dude I have to ask you
this I don't know if you'll be totally
honest okay I'll try to do it okay
web3 is awesome right
crypto is cool right uh did you ever
invest in crypto and what do you think
about like this crypto and by the way
FTX well I think when you're recording
this so anyway what do you think I have
never invested in crypto and the reason
for that is I don't understand crypto
um I feel like for example when I look
at web3
um and I'm just ignoring let me make
that claim right so I'm ignore it I
don't understand why web3 should exist
so there are two parts of crypto right
one is cryptocurrencies which is how do
you decentralize finance and then there
is a the web 3 concept which is like how
do you build even applications which is
dapps uh in a in a way where there are
decent decentralized
um now at least my experience with
products and applications has been that
products and applications are more about
how do you get adoption that's the
primary usage usage and adoption that is
the primary problem statement to solve
uh
decentralization of apps has not been A
New Concept okay uh for example torrents
have existed for a while
basically it was completely
decentralized right you taught it into
all these guys yeah
um
but even I mean for example in some ways
um what's slack is today used to be IRC
earlier and IRC was also in some ways
decentralized correct so uh because the
concept of decentralization has existed
in the past and they haven't taken off
that tells us something that tells us
something right so I well for example
like can if you tell me can we build a
decentralized Facebook I would say like
it's it's incredibly hard to build
because the the core of Facebook was the
fact that they were able to get the same
kind of adoption and get so many people
to use it on a regular basis and there
was somebody spending day and night
thinking about how do I increase the
adoption how do I increase the
engagement this is interesting right
engineering and product building is more
about adoption and usage and value
versus hey look I built this cool thing
correct correct it doesn't work that way
I mean and this is a common mistake that
most early product managers or early
Engineers also yeah yeah correct
so if that's the thing that I mean I
don't understand as I said again saying
that I'm very ignorant I don't
understand why will dabs take off
um and hence I I haven't gone bullish on
web3 yet you love this man I I thought
uh you'll be like no no this is the
future this is super I completely agree
tell me about the metaverse right so
here's what I understand okay
um my wife and I we met on Facebook by
the way oh oh yeah I just realized this
wow and happily married seven years also
best friends 16 years so super and we
met on this online thing called yovil
okay it was like uh it's like a
it was like GTA online you can run
around but you build a house over there
Etc it's so lame when I say this now but
isn't that metaverse as well like it's
just online open world multiplayer maybe
you can do transactions on it's not
metaverse as well like this has been
around for a while right why are we
talking about it now right right have
you seen the movie called Ready Player
one yes yes absolutely yeah so I think
that's where metabus plans to be which
is you have a different Universe
everybody has their own Alias and
identity uh people can meaningfully
interact with each other for example you
can actually feel the touch
I mean I can actually walk up to
somebody and touch them and you feel
that you're being touched with the word
from virtual work from office work from
home work from virtual yeah this is very
scary dude would you like to live in
such a world personally
um
again I would say I don't know uh I'm
ignorant even there
um I I can see why there was a need for
it right when kovid happened when
everybody was stuck in their homes uh
one of the things that took a large hit
was this physical social interaction
that we were used to yeah and hence I
mean you would find that there are a lot
of people who went into depression
people who were into negative cycles
that even became stronger negative
Cycles uh we are social animals at the
end of the day we need that sort of
interaction right so
some of this could have helped
you still have some I mean there is one
end of the spectrum where you have
completely virtual social interactions
the other end of the spectrum where
you're sitting in front of somebody
interacting physically this is somewhere
in the middle where you have sort of a
physical interaction with somebody
without actually being physically
present there
um
so there is that the answer to the why
of metaverse is that like how do you get
people to interact with each other
without actually having to be there
right for example can I meaningfully
interact with my relatives who might not
be present in this city without having
to travel there
um so so that's the answer of the why
now
whether or not it takes off and whether
or not it is effective it's completely
uh
dependent on the execution
adoption right we'll go back to like
will people actually use it is it
actually useful and and I mean does it
feel not weird does it feel yeah I think
it's a very disorienting right now I'm
guessing yeah uh but to talk about
adoption and usage right
um so there's this interesting thing
happening in product management okay so
everyone assumes key tech companies and
maybe rightly so tech companies can
scale you need Engineers engineering
good code engineering product takes time
uh and then it goes to its own life
cycle has to be refactored Etc so high
quality code is tough to build
um but they're also building for impact
and usage the impact and usage and
adoption very early stage companies man
uh you have to iterate very quickly
so you have to trade very quickly
the maintenance is also high so the
route people are taking instead of doing
heavy engineering you go towards this
low code route where you can basically
build anything right uh but of course
some things uh some nuances are over
there it's maybe could be buggy Etc but
that seems to be taking and if you're
just building most companies are under
they're not millions of users right
right most companies will be hundreds of
thousands of users at best and maybe
it's good enough for them what are your
thoughts on like Engineering in low code
no code like what are your thoughts no I
agree with the approach that like get it
get to a state where you can prove a
concept and then do the engineering
heavy engineering thing yeah yeah I mean
um in fact it is in fact better that you
build something which is not perfect
yeah in the beginning yeah it is
actually buggy it actually is painful to
use and yet people are using it because
that shows you the the the demand for
the product for example imagine that
imagine the paytm days right like okay
um the recharge days the recharged yeah
you would have to go to a shop to do the
recharge versus now I can do a recharge
on my mobile even though it might take
me five tries to get the recharge done I
was getting coupons also dude
remove the coupon I mean I'm just saying
that even for the convenience I might
just do it using my mobile and that
shows the product Market fit yeah so it
is in fact better that you get to a
broken not so polished product in the
beginning so that you can prove that
this is really needed yeah because if
you don't do that then you get stuck in
the cycle of this is probably a good to
have I might use it just because there
was a lot of push some people might have
used it and this was actually not needed
and you spend so much time now building
this and now you're lies that there is
no product Market fit and hence you have
to shut down okay I guess get to
adoption right that's all that matters
right is the user finding value
otherwise correct dude one last thing
about this this thing that you are up
till 2am 3M right keeps nagging in my
mind
so I have to ask you how is have you
made any health changes in your life
like Diet wise workout wise or this is
something that you still want to do and
I guess you might not be finding time
right now
yeah I mean uh that's one place where I
want to really improve and I keep
teaching people about motivation that's
one place I said I need to improve uh I
mean I have I've been guilty of not
exercising enough
um on regular days however like one
ritual that I have built which I am very
proud of is that every Sunday
um I along with other scalar students we
play a cricket in Bangalore as a ritual
like that happens every weekend without
fail and the timings are like we play
for like three to four hours yeah yeah
this is very nice so that gives me some
exercise every week dude I was sitting
with nitin right and he said something
very scary
okay so basically we play we play so at
at learn app every twice a week we play
badminton which is like really strenuous
uh it's not under tick tick like it's
like badminton right and then Saturday
they play cricket I I don't like
crickets I don't play
um and then I I used to go for these
runs and then last one months I've
completely stopped as you can see
dude and nitin said something that
scared the crap out of me he's like so
let's say you live till 85. how do you
want to live the last five years of your
life 80 to 85. and the way you want to
live do you want to be bedridden
diseased in a hospital someone taking
care of you really really rich you know
someone's feeding you like with the
Golden Spoon some nice and acharya and
all of that but um do you really want to
live like that so if you don't you have
to make daily changes today I got so
scared when I heard this I'm like this
is the most morbid thing
and shardul in office and Anish they
started uh I mean they're also on the
trip over here right for the podcast and
they got up in the hotel room so we
pushed up again
I went out for a nine kilometer walk I
didn't go today but I'm thinking like I
guess this is more about thinking of the
future and uh and then hopefully you
make a change so hopefully next time we
meet we will be like more fitter I guess
yeah
um no I completely agree I think uh uh
this is a common mistake all of us make
especially the founders that uh because
the rest everything is so important and
Urgent both correct the thing which is
very important but not urgent takes the
back seat and that is like focus on your
physical health health is wealth
yes so uh Facebook fired 11 000 people
and I'm sure Mark did it with the
straight face you don't need to react to
this because I don't know him so it's
okay and I'm sure that was very very
difficult right and linkedin's like
flooded with all of this happening I
think it's happening in multiple
countries companies not only not only
Facebook
um but if that Cascades to India because
a lot of demand comes from America right
so if they stop hiding if they stop
building if credit is expand offensive
I'm getting into macroeconomics now but
basically if there is less demand and
we're not building stuff as much and we
reduce throughput then Engineers might
be lesser in demand over a shorter
period of time over let's say one year
does is that something that scares you
concerning with scalar effect
yeah I mean I actually answer that
question in two parts like one is like
the the fact that my Optimist in me
feels and then two is like this fact on
what I feel like Skiller is going to do
I mean so Optimus in me feels that
and this is a trend that we've been
seeing that India because there is a
large Arbitrage with respect to the U.S
India I mean the same engineers in India
much cheaper with the same kind of
quality so a lot of companies what
they've done is they've started hiring
more in India and started laying off
people in the US oh interesting
um now again like that's not a good
thing for people in the US I mean
anybody losing job is very unfortunate
and I mean to be honest like playoffs
are probably one of the worst kind of
times to be in because it just
it has massive effect on your confidence
as well I think imagine somebody working
at Facebook I mean they would be at the
top of their confidence level that hey
look I was able to get into Facebook
which is one of the best employers now
once you're laid off I mean then you
start questioning every single aspect of
your life right so it's a very bad state
to be in but I mean at least one of the
trends we're seeing is this U.S to India
Arbitrage Arbitrage for example happened
with Uber Uber uh there was a recent
news where Uber said that they would be
hiring 400 new engineers in India but
they're reducing their Workforce in the
US it happened with a lot of banks so
Banks like Barclays Deutsche Bank
Etc what they did was they they
significantly reduce their Workforce in
European countries and they hired those
engineers in India yeah so
um that Trend continues to happen and in
fact like my belief is that it will even
strengthen over the next few years
um however that being said like on the
macro Trend I mean there is a very very
high probability that there is going to
be if there is already no recession and
there will be a recession in the US very
very soon I think that's right right I
think the riskiest thing over here is
not only the layoff it's the mental
state of that person and I think someone
had said this that we live in over
stimulated minds and under stimulated
bodies and you're talking about this in
a different episode also is that key
anxiety and all of these things stem
because the body is not doing what it's
built to do right this production code
is not working as as it was it's
supposed to do and because of that you
have all these issues in your mind like
you try to build with your mind you
solve issues with it it you that's why
people can't sleep properly and I don't
know I'm seeing it a lot more now and I
I think anxiety because I think Founders
anxiety is very different Founders
anxiety is
um I'm sure you've also gone through it
I think we've all gone through it uh oh
Runway come here at least we did it
we've been through three near-death
experiences
and then he came out and those times are
like you're thinking how do I let go of
all these people what will happen to
their future
what will happen and you get worried
about it
um I think the best way to deal with
this whether you're a Founder person
first job second job is that this very
morbid thought I have I think really
works and thought is
on your Deathbed will you really regret
what happened right now like what will
you truly be happy and proud of and most
of our worries if you think of that
right when I'm 80 I'm on my deathbed
maybe I'm older hopefully uh but will
this problem that I think I'm so
stressed out about will it really matter
will I even remember when I'm that old
in most cases they were just small
things that we just made
and I think it could solve so I guess if
you were laid off one thing would be
like would it really matter you see it
as an opportunity I guess I would say I
mean to be honest like in certain sense
it's it's a very good opportunity
because I've seen in the last recession
cycle which was 2008 2009 there were a
lot of people who were laid off they
came back to India and they started
businesses I mean so I personally know
of people who have made like 50 60 70
million dollars yeah in personal income
just from that cycle just from that
cycle because they came back to India
and they started their own Venture here
yeah 100 which is impossible if they
were there in the USA so it could be a
good thing in Disguise I mean yeah 100 I
think every cycle brings something
new Heroes new people to podcast
[Laughter]
no I have a set of questions and we'll
do the rapid fire I have no coffee
hamper
but I have questions and these are
uh
ready yeah so what's your unfair
Advantage as a person
I can work very hard I can work very
hard I mean I know that if I'm competing
with somebody I'll at least beat them on
the input
and you can do this consistently for a
long period for a long period of time
yeah you expect the same from your
teammates
not really I I mean same philosophy as
Facebook which is impact first as long
as people are creating impact I mean
even if they spend less time to do that
that's that's fine
uh what's your favorite holiday
destination
when I was uh in the US it used to be
um places in Europe uh when I'm in India
it's Goa
do you take holidays often
once a year
once again what's your biggest uh what's
your biggest regret
um
actually very hard to answer the
question
um
now that I have to go back to all of my
life decisions
I could have probably done scale sooner
nice
okay what's your biggest fear about
money it could be money in the company
it could be money for yourself could be
money for family but is there a fear
associated
do you mean like what would happen in
the absence of money or do you mean like
what could be either it could be too
much it could be too little hmm
I think in a business uh
um I mean my biggest fear is that if you
have so much money that you stop
focusing on the fundamentals of a
business
um that's what kills a company that was
kills a brand so I mean as long as we're
able to maintain the DNA of being
outcomes first very focused on day to
day
um
that's what builds a large enough
company so intentionally we have never
raised a large round because of that
interesting the the power of having
plenty complacency complacency other
time
inefficiency
um
because they're happening maybe two
layers below you um
completely true
um oh this is a completely out of the
blue question did you ever steal money
as a kid or steal something from a shop
as a kid did that ever happen
um I have lied bunch of times but I have
never stolen
and what's next for you next five years
ten years like something one thing yeah
yay next
then I want to scale sorry yeah
I mean so even today scalar is seen by
most people as just an upskilling
platform the next hurdle for us is like
how do we start seeing being seen scene
in the same category as universities and
much better universities right so our
mission when we started was build an
online Stanford
um I think we still have to do the
Stanford bit so a lot of my energy for
the next five years a lot of the energy
of everybody here at the org is going to
be just how how do we replace or
reinvent universities for better
um
Superman this was amazing thank you so
much thank you thank you thank you so
much thank you so much